---
date: 2017/03/03
title: Privacy Policy
---

Numenta, Inc. provides this Privacy Policy to inform you of our policies
and procedures regarding the collection, use, and disclosure of personal
information we might receive from visitors and registered users of the
websites located at [www.numenta.com](http://www.numenta.com) and
[www.numenta.org](/) through their use of the website and its features.
The websites and their features are collectively referred to herein as
the “Sites.” This Privacy Policy applies only to information that you
provide to us through the Sites.

**Information Collection**

**Personal Information**. When you sign up via the Sites to receive our
newsletter or subscribe to our blog, complete an application to apply
for a job, scholarship or license, register to provide feedback or
contact us for any other purpose, you may choose to give us certain
personal information that can be used to identify you, such as your
name, email address, mailing address, phone number, company name,
website URL and social media handles (“Personally Identifiable
Information” or “PII”). The decision to provide this information is
optional. However, if you choose not to provide the requested
information, you may not be able to use some or all of the features of
the Sites. You may also choose to provide us with additional information
that cannot be used by itself to identify you, such as asking how you
heard about Numenta, but that we may combine with your PII to associate
with you.

**Information Related to Use of the Sites.** Our servers automatically
record certain information about how a person uses our Sites (we refer
to this information as “Log Data”). Log Data may include information
such as your Internet Protocol (IP) address, browser type, operating
system, the web page that you were visiting before accessing our Sites,
the pages or features of our Sites to which you browsed, and the time
spent on those pages or features, search terms, the links on our Sites
that you click on, and other statistics. We use this information to
administer the Sites and we analyze (and may engage third parties to
analyze) this information to improve and enhance the Sites by expanding
its features and functionality and tailoring them to our users’
preferences. We may use a person’s IP address to fight spam, malware,
and identity theft. We also use the IP Address to generate aggregate,
non-identifying information about how our Sites are used.

We use Google Analytics to collect, monitor, and analyze Log Data in
order to increase our Sites’ functionality and user-friendliness, and to
better tailor our Sites to our visitors’ needs. We also use this
information to verify that visitors to the Sites meet the criteria
required to process their requests. Accordingly, Log Data is shared with
Google, which has [its own privacy policy](http://www.google.com/policies/privacy/)
addressing how it uses such information.

**Information Use**

Our primary goals in collecting information are to provide and improve
our Sites, to administer your use of the Sites, to enable users to
easily navigate our Sites and to respond to user inquiries and requests.

**Information Sharing**

We will not share any PII that we have collected from you except as
described below:

**Information Shared with Our Service Providers.** We may engage third
party service providers to work with us to administer the Sites and
provide other services. These third-party service providers have access
to your PII and other information we collect from you only for the
purpose of performing services on our behalf and are expressly obligated
not to disclose or use your PII for any other purpose.

**Information Shared with Third Parties.** We may share aggregated
information and non-identifying information with third parties for
industry analysis, demographic profiling, and other similar purposes.

**Information Disclosed in Connection with Business Transactions.**
Information that we collect from our users, including PII, is considered
to be a business asset. As a result, if we go out of business or enter
bankruptcy or if we are acquired as a result of a transaction such as a
merger, acquisition, or asset sale, your PII may be disclosed or
transferred to the third-party acquirer in connection with the
transaction.

**Information Disclosed for Our Protection and the Protection of
Others.** It is our policy to protect you from having your privacy
violated through abuse of the legal system, whether by individuals,
entities, or government, and to contest claims that we believe to be
invalid under applicable law. However, it is also our policy to
cooperate with government and law enforcement officials and private
parties, as appropriate. Accordingly, we reserve the right to disclose
any information about you to government or law enforcement officials or
private parties as we, in our sole discretion, believe necessary: (i) to
satisfy or comply with any applicable law, regulation, or legal process
or to respond to lawful requests, including subpoenas, warrants, or
court orders; (ii) to protect our property, rights, and safety and the
rights, property, and safety of third parties or the public in general;
and (iii) to prevent or stop activity we consider to be illegal or
unethical.

**Security**

We take reasonable measures to protect the information that we collect
from or about you (including your PII) from unauthorized access, use, or
disclosure. Please be aware, however, that no method of transmitting
information over the Internet or storing information is completely
secure. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee the absolute security of any
information.

**Third Party Links**

Our Sites may contain links to other websites and services and may allow
you to create accounts with third parties. Any information that you
provide on or to a third-party website or service is provided directly
to the owner of that website or service and is subject to that party's
privacy policy. Our Privacy Policy does not apply to such websites or
services and we are not responsible for the content, privacy, or
security practices and policies of those websites or services. To
protect your information we recommend that you carefully review the
privacy policies of other websites and services that you access.

**Modifying and Deleting Information**

If you want us to delete or modify your PII, please contact us at
info@numenta.com with your request. We’ll take steps to delete or modify
your information as soon as is practicable, but some information may
remain in archived/backup copies for our records or as otherwise
required by law. Please note that some user content that appears on or
is collected from our Sites is stored and controlled by third party
providers, thus, complete and comprehensive removal of the contact may
not be possible.

To delete your name from our email contact lists, you may follow the
“unsubscribe” instructions contained in our communications to you.

**Be Careful When You Share Information with Others**

Please be aware that whenever you share information on a publicly
available area of our Sites, such as in a comment section, that
information may be accessed, passed along or made public by others. This
means that anyone with access to such information can potentially use it
for any purpose, including sending unsolicited communications.

**International Transfer**

Your PII and communications may be transferred to, and maintained on,
computers located outside of your state, province, country, or other
governmental jurisdiction where the privacy laws may not be as
protective as those in your jurisdiction. If you are located outside the
United States and choose to provide your PII or other information to us,
we may transfer such information to the United States and process it
there.

**Our Policy Toward Children**

Our Sites are not directed to persons under 18. In addition, we do not
knowingly collect PII from children under 13. If we learn that we have
collected PII of a child under 13 we will take steps to delete such
information from our files as soon as possible.

**Changes to Privacy Policy**

Any information that we collect is subject to the privacy policy in
effect at the time such information is collected. We may, however,
modify and revise this Privacy Policy from time to time. If we make any
material changes to this Privacy Policy, we’ll notify you of such
changes by posting them on the Sites or by sending you an email or other
notification, and we’ll indicate when such changes will become
effective.

**Contacting Numenta**

Please contact us at info@numenta.com if you have any questions about
our Privacy Policy.
