---
date: 2017/03/03
title: Terms of Service
---

These terms of service (these “**Terms**”) apply to the use of Numenta’s
websites, [www.numenta.com](https://numenta.com) and [www.numenta.org](/)
(collectively, “**Numenta Websites**”) which are owned and operated by
Numenta, Inc. (“**Numenta**,” “**we**,” or “**us**”).

Please read these Terms carefully before accessing or using the Numenta
Websites. By accessing or using any part of the Numenta Websites, you
agree to become bound by these Terms.

## 1. MODIFICATION OF TERMS

We reserve the right to change, modify, add or remove portions of these
Terms at any time without prior notice. Such modifications shall be
effective immediately upon posting of the modified Terms to the Numenta
Websites. Your continued use of the Numenta Websites will mean that you
accept these Terms.

## 2. NO UNLAWFUL OR PROHIBITED USE

You warrant to Numenta that you will not use the Numenta Websites, or
any of the content therein, for any purpose that is unlawful or that is
prohibited by these Terms.

## 3. LINKS

The Numenta Websites may permit you to link to other websites, services
or resources on the Internet that are not owned, operated or controlled
by Numenta or its affiliates, including without limitation, GitHub. The
links contained in the Numenta Websites are not intended to be referrals
or endorsements of the linked sites and we are providing them only as a
convenience to you. As such, Numenta is not responsible or liable for
the content of such sites. We advise you to review the legal, privacy
and security information for each such site to which you link, as the
terms and conditions of use and the policies relating to the personal
information you provide may vary from site to site. When you access
third party resources on the Internet, you do so entirely at your own
risk. You acknowledge that we are not responsible or liable for the
content, functions, accuracy, legality, appropriateness or any other
aspect of such sites. The Numenta Privacy Policy is applicable only when
you are on the Numenta Websites.

## 4. ADDITIONAL TERMS

Some areas of the Numenta Websites may have additional terms and
conditions governing the use of certain features on the Numenta Websites
such as the HTM Studio application and the NuPIC open source code
(“**Additional Terms**”). Where Additional Terms apply, we will make
them available for you to read through prior to your use of that area of
the Numenta Websites. By using those areas of the Numenta Websites, you
agree to the Additional Terms.

## 5. USER REGISTRATION

Certain features of the Numenta Websites, such as posting to community
pages on the Numenta Websites, requires you to register for an account
through third-party services such as Disqus, Facebook or Twitter
(“**Account**”). We advise you to review the legal, privacy and security
information for each such site through which you register for an
Account, as the terms and conditions of use and the policies relating to
the personal information you provide may vary from site to site. You may
never use another person’s user Account or registration information to
access or use the Numenta Websites without permission. You are solely
responsible for the activity that occurs on your Account, and for
keeping your Account password secure.

## 6. COPYRIGHT, TRADEMARK, AND OTHER INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS

All of the content featured or displayed on the Numenta Websites,
including without limitation, text, graphics, photographs, images, audio
clips, video clips and other materials, as well as the selection,
arrangement and organization of the foregoing and the Numenta Websites
as a whole (collectively, “**Content**”) is owned by Numenta, its
licensors, vendors, agents and/or its Content providers. The Content is
subject to copyrights, trademarks, service marks, patents, and/or other
intellectual property rights or licenses and may only be used for the
intended purpose for which such Content is being made available. Except
as may be otherwise indicated in specific documents within the Numenta
Websites, you are authorized to view, print, download and use documents
and other content found on the Numenta Websites for personal,
informational and noncommercial purposes only. All software used on or
downloaded from the Numenta Websites are the property of Numenta and
Numenta’s licensors and is protected by U.S. and international copyright
and other intellectual property laws. No right, title or interest in any
downloaded or copied materials are transferred to you as a result of any
such downloading or copying. All other trademarks, service marks,
graphics and logos used in connection with the Numenta Websites,
including, without limitation, Numenta and NuPIC, are trademarks or
registered trademarks of Numenta or Numenta’s licensors, and may not be
used without our express permission. Your use of the Numenta Websites
grants you no right or license to reproduce or otherwise use any Numenta
or third-party trademarks. The Numenta Websites, Content, and all
related rights shall remain the exclusive property of Numenta or its
licensors unless otherwise expressly agreed.

## 7. USER-GENERATED CONTENT

You are solely responsible for all material (including, but without
limitation, information, data, text, photographs, videos, audio clips,
written posts, articles, comments, feedback, software, scripts, and
graphics) added, created, uploaded, submitted, distributed or posted or
otherwise made publicly available on the Numenta Websites or privately
transmitted to us (“**User Content**”) by you and any harm resulting
therefrom. You agree that no User Content submitted by you to the
Website will violate any right of any third party, including copyright,
trademark, privacy, publicity or other personal or proprietary right(s).
You also agree that no User Content submitted by you to the Numenta
Websites will be or contain libelous or otherwise unlawful, abusive,
immoral or obscene material or that will constitute or encourage conduct
that would be considered criminal or encourage conduct that is criminal.
You are and shall remain solely responsible for the content of any User
Content you submit. Numenta reserves the right to take any action it
reasonably deems necessary to cure or prevent a violation of these
Terms, including without limitation, removal from the Numenta Websites
of any User Content.

You acknowledge that all Content, including User Content, accessed by
you using the Numenta Websites is at your own risk and you will be
solely responsible for any damage or loss to you or any other party
resulting therefrom. We do not guarantee that any Content you access on
or through the Numenta Websites is or will continue to be accurate or
complete.

## 8. ACCEPTABLE USE

By using the Numenta Websites, you represent and warrant that you will
not:

-   violate any law or regulation;

-   violate or infringe Numenta’s or other people’s intellectual,
    property, privacy, publicity or other legal rights;

-   use the Numenta Websites to transmit, distribute, post or submit any
    information concerning any other person or entity, including without
    limitation, photographs or personal contact information of other
    without their permission;

-   transmit anything that is illegal, abusive, harassing, harmful to
    reputation, pornographic, indecent, profane, obscene, hateful,
    racist or otherwise objectionable;

-   send unsolicited or unauthorized advertising or commercial
    communications, such as spam;

-   transmit any malicious or unsolicited software;

-   stalk, harass or harm another individual;

-   use any means to “scrape,” crawl” or “spider” any Webpages contained
    in the Numenta Websites or use automated methods to use the Numenta
    Websites in a manner that sends more requests to the Numenta
    Websites’ services in a given period of time than a human can
    reasonably produce in the same period by using a conventional Web
    browser;

-   interfere with or damage the Numenta Websites, including, without
    limitation, through the use of viruses, cancel bots, Trojan horses,
    harmful code, flood pings, denial-of-service attacks, packet or IP
    spoofing, forged routing or electronic mail address information or
    similar methods of technology;

-   register for more than one account on a Numenta Website or register
    for an account on behalf of an individual other than yourself;

-   use, display, mirror or frame the Numenta Websites or any individual
    element within the Numenta Websites, the Numenta names, any
    trademarks, logos or other proprietary information, or the layout
    and design of any page or form contained on a page, without
    Numenta’s express written consent;

-   access, tamper with, or use non-public areas of the Numenta
    Websites, Numenta’s computer systems, or the technical delivery
    systems of Numenta providers;

-   attempt to probe, scan, or test the vulnerability of any Numenta
    system or network or breach any security or authentication measures;

-   avoid, bypass, remove, deactivate, impair, descramble or otherwise
    circumvent any technological measures implemented by Numenta or any
    of Numenta’s providers or any other third party (including another
    user) to protect the Numenta Websites;

-   attempt to decipher, decompile, disassemble or reverse engineer any
    of the software provided on or used to provide the Numenta Websites;
    or

-   advocate, encourage or assist and third party in doing any of the
    foregoing.

## 9. LICENSE GRANT

By posting or submitting User Content (excepting any information you
provide to us as part of the recruitment, license and/or scholarship
application) on the Website or to us, you automatically and irrevocably:
(a) grant to us a worldwide, non-exclusive, perpetual, royalty-free,
fully-paid, sublicensable and transferable right to use, edit, modify,
truncate, aggregate, reproduce, distribute, prepare derivative works of,
display, perform and otherwise fully exploit the User Content in
connection with the Numenta Websites and our (and our successors’ and
assigns’) businesses, by any means and in all media now known or
hereafter devised; (b) waive all “moral” rights in the User Content
which may be available to you in any part of the world and confirm that
no such rights have been asserted; (c) represent and warrant that you
own all rights to grant such license without infringement or violation
of any third-party rights, including without limitation, any privacy
rights, publicity rights, copyrights, trademarks, contract rights or any
other intellectual property or proprietary rights; and (d) confirm that
no such User Content will be subject to any obligation, of confidence or
otherwise, to you or any other person and that Numenta shall not be
liable for any use or disclosure of such User Content. For the sake of
clarity, the foregoing license granted to us and our users do not affect
your other ownership or license rights in your User Content, including
the right to grant additional licenses to your User Content, unless
otherwise agreed in writing.

## 10. AVAILABILITY OF CONTENT

You acknowledge that Numenta has no obligation to monitor your access to
or use of the Numenta Websites or to review or edit any User Content or
other posted content, but has the right to do so for the purposes of
operating the Numenta Websites, to ensure your compliance with these
Terms, and/or to comply with applicable law or the order or requirement
of a court, administrative agency or other governmental body. We reserve
the right, at any time and without prior notice, to remove or disable
access to any User Content or content that we, at our sole discretion,
consider to be objectionable for any reason, in violation of these Terms
or otherwise harmful to the Numenta Websites.

## 11. COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT POLICY AND PROCEDURE

We respond to notices of alleged copyright infringement and terminate
accounts of repeat infringers according to the process set out in the
U.S. Digital Millennium Copyright Act (“**DMCA**”).

NOTICE OF COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT:

If you believe that your work has been copied in a way that constitutes
copyright infringement, please send the following information to our
designated copyright agent named below (“**Designated Agent**”) either
by mail or e-mail:

1.  Your name, physical address, telephone number and e-mail address;

2.  identification of the copyrighted work that you claim has been
    infringed;

3.  A description of the material that is claimed to be infringing
    reasonably sufficient enough to permit us to locate the claimed
    infringing material;

4.  A statement by you that you have a good faith belief that the
    disputed use is not authorized by you, the copyright owner, its
    agent, or the law;

5.  A statement by you, made under penalty of perjury, that the above
    information is accurate and that you are the copyright owner or have
    been authorized to act on behalf of the copyright owner; and

6.  A physical or electronic signature of the person authorized to act
    on behalf of the owner of the copyright interest.

You acknowledge and agree that upon receipt and notice of a claim of
infringement, we may immediately remove the identified materials from
the Numenta Websites without liability, and the claims of the
complaining party and the party that originally posted the materials
will be referred to the United States Copyright Office for adjudication
as provided in the DMCA.

COUNTER-NOTICE BY ACCUSED USER:

If we have taken down your materials due to suspicion of copyright
infringement, you may dispute the alleged infringement by sending the
following information to our Designated Agent either by mail or e-mail
(“**Counter Notice**”):

1.  Your physical or electronic signature;

2.  Identification of the content that has been removed or to which
    access has been disabled and the location at which the content
    appeared before it was removed or disabled;

3.  A statement by you that you have a good faith belief that the
    content was removed or disabled as a result of mistake or
    misidentification of the content; and

4.  Your name, physical address, telephone number and e-mail address and
    a statement that (a) you consent to the jurisdiction of the Federal
    Court for the judicial district in which your address is located, or
    if your address is outside of the United States, to the United
    States District Court for the Northern District of California
    and (b) you will accept service of process from the person who
    provided notification of the alleged infringement.

If a Counter Notice is received by the Designated Agent, we may forward
a copy of the Counter Notice to the original complaining party. The
claimant must then notify us within ten (10) days that (s)he has filed
an action seeking a court order against you to restrain you from
engaging in infringing activity relating to the content that was removed
or disabled. If we receive such notification, we will not be able to
restore your material. If we do not receive such notification, we may,
at our sole discretion, reinstate the material.

Please note that when we forward the Counter Notice, it includes your
personal notification. By submitting a Counter Notice, you consent to
having your information revealed in this way. We will not forward the
Counter Notice to any party other than the original claimant.

DESIGNATED COPYRIGHT AGENT:

Please send all notices under the above copyright infringement policies
to our Designated Agent at <copyright@numenta.com> or at:

**Numenta\
Attn: Teri Fry\
791 Middlefield Rd.\
Redwood City, CA 94063**

Please do not send notices or inquiries about anything other than
alleged copyright infringement to our Designated Agent.

REPEAT INFRINGERS:

Your Account will be terminated if, in our discretion, you are
determined to be a repeat infringer. Repeat infringers are users who
have been the subject of more than one valid takedown request that has
not been successfully rebutted.

## 12. TERMINATION

We may terminate your access to all or any part of the Numenta Websites
at any time, with or without cause, with or without notice, effective
immediately, which may result in the forfeiture and destruction of all
information associated with your Account. If you violate any terms of
these Terms, including the Additional Terms, your permission to use the
Numenta Websites automatically terminates. All provisions of these
Terms, which by their nature should survive termination, shall survive
termination, including without limitation, licenses of User Content,
ownership provisions, warranty disclaimers, indemnity and limitations of
liability.

## 13. ASSIGNMENT

These Terms are personal to you, and are not assignable, transferable or
sublicensable by you without our prior written consent. We may assign,
transfer or delegate any of our rights and obligations under these
Terms, including, without limitation, in connection with a merger,
acquisition, a sale of assets or by operation of law, without your
consent. Any attempted transfer or assignment in violation hereof shall
be null and void.

## 14. FORCE MAJEURE

Under no circumstances will Numenta be liable for any failure to perform
our obligations hereunder, in whole or in part, where such failure
results from any cause beyond our reasonable control, including without
limitation, mechanical, electronic or communications failure or
degradation.

## 15. NO WAIVER

Our failure to enforce any part of these Terms shall not constitute a
waiver of our right to later enforce that or any other part of these
Terms. Waiver of compliance in any particular instance does not mean
that we will waive compliance in the future. In order for any waiver of
compliance with these Terms to be binding, we must provide you with
written notice of such waiver through one of our authorized
representatives.

## 16. DISCLAIMER AND LIMITATION OF LIABILITY

THE NUMENTA WEBSITES AND ALL CONTENT AVAILABLE ON THE NUMENTA WEBSITES
ARE PROVIDED ON AN “AS IS” BASIS WITHOUT WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, WHETHER
EXPRESS, IMPLIED, STATUTORY OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION
WARRANTIES OF TITLE OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
NON-INFRINGEMENT OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR THOSE ARISING
OUT OF A COURSE OF DEALING OR PERFORMANCE OR USAGE OF TRADE. TO THE
FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, YOU ACKNOWLEDGE AND AGREE,
BY YOUR USE OF THE NUMENTA WEBSITES, THAT YOUR USE IS AT YOUR SOLE RISK
AND THAT NUMENTA AND ITS OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES, DIRECTORS, SHAREHOLDERS,
PARENTS, SUBSIDIARIES, AFFILIATES, AGENTS AND LICENSORS (COLLECTIVELY,
“**AFFILIATES**”) SHALL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES OF ANY KIND
RELATED TO YOUR USE OF THE NUMENTA WEBSITES.

IN PARTICULAR, AND TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW,
NUMENTA AND ITS AFFILIATES MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES ABOUT
THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF CONTENT AVAILABLE ON OR THROUGH THE
NUMENTA WEBSITES OR THE CONTENT OF ANY WEBSITES OR ONLINE SERVICES
LINKED TO OR INTEGRATED WITH THE NUMENTA WEBSITES. TO THE FULLEST EXTENT
PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, NUMENTA AND ITS AFFILIATES WILL HAVE NO
LIABILITY FOR ANY: (A) ERRORS, MISTAKES OR INACCURACIES OF CONTENT; (B)
PERSONAL INJURY OR PROPERTY DAMAGE RESULTING FROM YOUR ACCESS TO OR USE
OF THE NUMENTA WEBSITES; (C) ANY UNAUTHORIZED ACCESS TO OR USE OF OUR
SERVERS OR ANY PERSONAL INFORMATION OR USER DATA; (D) ANY INTERRUPTION
OF TRANSMISSION TO OR FROM THE NUMENTA WEBSITES; (E) ANY BUGS, VIRUSES,
TROJAN HORSES OR THE LIKE WHICH MAY BE TRANSMITTED ON OR THROUGH THE
NUMENTA WEBSITES BY ANY THIRD PARTY; OR (F) ANY LOSS OR DAMAGE OF ANY
KIND INCURRED AS A RESULT OF THE USE OF ANY CONTENT POSTED OR SHARED
THROUGH THE NUMENTA WEBSITES.

TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN NO EVENT WILL
NUMENTA OR ITS AFFILIATES BE LIABLE TO YOU OR ANY THIRD PARTY FOR ANY
INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, PUNITIVE OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING FOR THE INDIRECT LOSS OF PROFIT, REVENUE OR DATA) ARISING OUT
OF OR RELATING TO THE NUMENTA WEBSITES, HOWEVER CAUSED, AND UNDER
WHATEVER CAUSE OF ACTION OR THEORY OF LIABILITY BROUGHT (INCLUDING UNDER
ANY CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORT THEORY OF LIABILITY) EVEN IF
ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT
ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OF LIABILITY OR INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES,
SO THE ABOVE LIMITATION OR EXCLUSION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.

## 17. INDEMNIFICATION

To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, you agree to defend,
indemnify and hold harmless Numenta and its Affiliates from all
liabilities, claim and expenses, including reasonable attorneys’ fees,
that arise from or relate to your use or misuse of, or access to, the
Numenta Websites, Content or otherwise from your User Content, violation
of these Terms, or infringement by you or any third party using your
Account or identity on the Numenta Websites, of any intellectual
property or other right of any person or entity. We reserve the right to
assume the exclusive defense and control of any matter otherwise subject
to indemnification by you, in which event you will assist and cooperate
with us in asserting any available defenses.

## 18. GOVERNING LAW AND JURISDICTION

These Terms shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the
laws of the State of California, including its conflicts of law rules,
and the United States of America. Without waiving the foregoing
arbitration provision, you agree that any dispute arising from or
relating to the subject matter of these Terms or your use of the Numenta
Websites shall be governed by the exclusive jurisdiction and venue of
the state and federal courts of San Francisco County, California, except
where the jurisdiction and venue are mandated by applicable law. We
retain the right to seek injunctive or other equitable relief in a court
of competent jurisdiction arising out of or in connection with or in
relation to these Terms and your use of the Numenta Websites.

## 19. ENTIRE AGREEMENT AND SEVERABILITY

These Terms are the entire agreement between you and Numenta with
respect to the Numenta Websites, including use of the Numenta Websites,
and supersedes all prior or contemporaneous communications and proposals
(whether oral, written or electronic) between you and Numenta with
respect to the Numenta Websites. If any provisions of these Terms found
to be unenforceable or invalid, that provision will be limited or
eliminated to the minimum extent necessary so that these Terms will
otherwise remain in full force and effect and enforceable.

**Effective Date of Agreement**: 3/3/2017

## VIOLATIONS OF TERMS

Please report any violations of these Terms to <info@numenta.com>.
